Reddit Post from r/Libertarian
Date: 2019-01-27
Score: 46
Title: OK, I'll chime in with my two cents on the state of /r/libertarian

OK, I'll chime in with my two cents on the state of /r/libertarian I've been lurking for a long time but I didn't notice what was going on with /r/libertarian until today, then I started reading. Because some of the post's over here seem a little bit misleading or concerning. Let me just lead off with a few thoughts.

First of all Libertarian ideals are NOT compatible with Communist Ideals. There is no way around this. There is no way to counter-argue that libertarians and communists could get along in a utopia. Before you all get started rage-banning me for having a free speech opinion here, let me explain why. 

Libertarian ideals are based in the primary concept of "The Government cannot tell me what to do as long as I'm not infringing on the rights of another person." Communism as a basic concept is that everyone works together as a "communal group" and no one has any private property rights. There is no way to enforce Communism without using violent force. Otherwise as a Libertarian I would be able to say "No, I don't want to be a part of your Communist country, so I'm going to use my private property, to do what I want to do, and make money for myself. That's the exact point when a Communist Government is going to come in and take my shit by force. This neat little video, and their schools are voucher based. School vouchers are a system that a lot of people want here in america, which would force public schools to compete with private schools! In some of these ways Sweden is a little more libertarian that the USA is! On the other hand they also tax their lowest income bracket at 60%! which is horrifying, but then again, guess who's benefiting from all those social welfare programs - the lowest income earners! So no... Sweden is not a socialist utopia, nor are they redistributing wealth. (redistributing wealth is another topic that is antithetical to libertarianism.)

Lastly for my final point, I will stand on my single issue soap box, Gun Control! Every free state that has fallen to the likes of Authoritarian controlled Communist/socialist regimes, has enacted draconian, confiscation oriented, gun control. And in 100% of these cases immediately following confiscation, violent crime skyrockets. Some websites claim this is not true, they are flatly lying! It happened in Venezuela. If I told you that you could not get a drivers license unless you paid a $3700.00 federal tax to the NHTSA you'd all lose your minds! And Driving on a national highway isn't even a constitutionally guaranteed CIVIL RIGHT! 

TLDR; you can be an Authoritarian Communist, but being a Libertarian Communist is like claiming to be a ketchup and mustard Ice-cream sandwich, It just doesn't work!
