Reddit Post from r/geopolitics
Date: 2019-02-17
Score: 31
Title: [Series] Geopolitics and Climate Change: Western and Northern South America

[Series] Geopolitics and Climate Change: Western and Northern South America This is the twenty-sixth post in a weekly series that will serve as discussion-starters for how climate change will affect the geopolitics of various countries and regions. This series will examine the first-order (direct) impacts of climate change on countries--how climate change might affect food and water security for countries. The main goal here is to get a big-picture overview of the situation. A second series that will examine second-order (indirect) impacts has been announced and will start sometime after the conclusion of this series.

In every post, I provide a general introduction to the region, as well as some broad observations--these will serve as the basic starter kits for the discussions. Because I'm just a casual dabbler in the field of IR and geopolitics, these posts are learning experiences, so bear with me and do me a favor by pointing out any errors you might find--preferably backed by credible sources.

&nbsp;

#General Introductions

The region under discussion is comprised of the following six countries (listed by population; descending):

 Colombia

 Peru

 Venezuela

 Ecuador

 Guyana

 Suriname

Information relevant to the discussion can be found in the Google Spreadsheet linked below. Countries have been listed in order of their population sizes. Please note that Google Translate was used to search and cite certain UNFCCC communications that were not available in English.

&nbsp;

---Link to the spreadsheet---, with countries averaging at $12,500 GDP PPP per capita. With the exception of Guyana, which has a GDP PPP per capita of $8,100, the countries are close to the regional average. The region has a relatively high economic reliance on agriculture, reflecting its developmental status, but it should also be noted that industry makes up a large portion of the major countries' GDPs.

 With the exception of Guyana, which has a large amount of densely populated and utilized coastal lowlands, the region does not seem significantly vulnerable to rises in sea level, which is projected to be on the lower end of global estimates.

 There is a adequate amount of agricultural land in the region overall, with the vast majority of it being permanent pasture. Despite having the highest economic reliance on agriculture, Guyana has a small amount of agricultural land (8.4% of total land) and Suriname has a miniscule amount (0.5%). Climate change is projected to have a generally negative impact on agriculture in the region, with many countries reporting that the sector is the most vulnerable sector or is among the most vulnerable. Peru projects the sector's GDP losses to be 24-33% of GDP by 2100. 

 The region is very rich in freshwater, with an average of 108,041 m3 per capita of internal renewable freshwater per year. Even Venezuela, which has the lowest value, has 26,000 m3 per capita per year, which is around the region's average. For comparison, the world average is 5,900 m3. However, as with all regions, country-scale availability of water does not translate to availability across the country, as the presence and quality of infrastructure to process and transport it must be taken into account. The quality of the water might also be an issue, as temperature increases and salination due to flooding and inundation will likely decrease it.

&nbsp;

#Tentative Schedule 

(explanation]( 19th
Oceania (with focus on Australia)]( 23rd
Central Asia]( 14th
Caucasus.
