Reddit Post from r/Conservative
Date: 2019-02-07
Score: 77
Title: All of humanity should be afraid of socialist collectivism.

All of humanity should be afraid of socialist collectivism. While America is indeed exceptional, our current state of affairs is not unusual. A century ago, it took the Bolsheviks of 1917 and a Lenin to set the stage for a Stalin tyrant. Fatherless rabble-rousers from broken families who owned nothing had nothing at risk, and thus nothing to lose. The Bolsheviks told the Russian people when they had reached the apex of Russian civilization in the arts, architecture, in everything.
We’re going to redistribute and take from the wealthy haves and give to you the have-nots, inculcating secular jealousy and class envy. Dividing, and in their wake, destroying Russian culture, Russian traditions, and all that was Russian.

40 years later in 1957 Havana, two fatherless bearded Cuban brothers and another from Argentina who owned nothing, had nothing at risk, and thus nothing to lose, told the Cuban people after they had reached by so many metrics the highest standard of living in Latin America. We’re going to take from all those Cubans that have too much, and we’re going to give it to you. There is no Cuban culture before us, no God. We know well what is best for you, we are gods. And many Cubans like the Russians before them swallowed that collectivist Marxist rhetoric garbage.

The fatherless Clown in Caracas who owned nothing and thus had nothing to lose, told the Venezuelan people the same after they had reached their zenith with all their natural resources. We’re going to redistribute and take from all those wealthy Venezuelans that have too much, and we're going to give it to you. And the Venezuelans swallowed that, too, while today tens of thousands of Venezuelans remain in exile in Miami-Doral, Florida having lost their culture and their country, their very way of life.

Whether it is the French Revolution, the Russian, Cuban, or Venezuelan revolutions, they are all the same: Subversive undermining Leftist movements, collectivists that with soothing tones of brotherhood, provide something for nothing, preying on the goodness and decency of their own noble people turning them against their forebears once generations of them have succeeded in their own society of faith and virtue. What had we in the White House eight long years, but a fatherless rabble-rousing community organizer and his Vice President, both of whom have never had a real job in the private sector their entire risk-free lives of comfort and bliss, all on the government dole just as their chosen successor, —Central planners that turn Americans against themselves, against our forebears who brought us the peace and prosperity we enjoy, against our heritage, our traditions, against everything that is American. By drawing on the basest of human emotions, avarice, jealousy and class envy with their perversions of our language, revisionist history, and their collectivist creed of sloth and deceit undermining us from within, —Mere stage setters for future tyrants, as history repeats itself, time and again.

“Like bones to the human body, the axle to the wheel, the wing to the bird, and the air to the wing, so is liberty the essence of life.” —José Martí, Poet & Cuban Liberator.

Government exists to do only what citizens cannot do for themselves Abraham Lincoln well taught us when he said:

“America will never be destroyed from the outside. If we falter and lose our freedoms, it will be because we destroyed ourselves.”

There’s no bridge today between secular Democrats and Republicans, no span, no greater chasm than this: The real divide today is how further we are distancing ourselves from Providence we either fully recognize, embrace with pride, reverence and conviction, or we go torn asunder. What distinguishes our American Revolution is those distinguished and illustrious, those 56 noble God-fearing gathered in Philadelphia who were from good families, with fathers, men of property who had everything to lose, and many did to found our republic. In their infinite wisdom, set us up an enduring American republic, A system of separation of powers, checks, and balances, purposeful gridlock at the federal level of government limited not to protect the three branches of government, —But to preserve liberty— The individual freedom of life’s choices by the people governed by law and not by men, so as to not fall into the tyrannical despotism most of the world has suffered throughout history, time immemorial. We are not a democracy. —All of which throughout history eventually fail, succumb to the rule of the mob. We are not citizens of the world with no flag, no faith, no allegiance, no heritage, no traditions, no Providence, no past, and thus no future.
We are Americans. 🇺🇸
